---
title: Colossians
---
# [Colossians](Colossians.md)

## Contents
* [Overview](README.md)
* [1:1-14](ch1v1-14.md)
* [1:15-23](ch1v15-23.md)
* [1:24-2:5](ch1v24-ch2v5.md)
* [2:6-15](ch2v6-15.md)
* [2:16-23](ch2v16-23.md)
* [3:1-11](ch3v1-11.md)
* [3:12-4:1](ch3v12-ch4v1.md)
* [4:2-18](ch4v2-18.md)

-----

## 1:1-14
1   Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our
brother, 2   To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae: Grace
to you and peace from God our Father.

3   We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for
you, 4   since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you
have for all the saints, 5   because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of
this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, 6   which has
come to you as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and increasing -
as it also does among you , since the day you heard it and understood the grace
of God in truth, 7   just as you learned it from Epaphras our beloved fellow
servant. He is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf 8   and has made
known to us your love in the Spirit.

9   And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking
that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom
and understanding, 10  so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully
pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the
knowledge of God.  11  May you be strengthened with all power, according to his
glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy, 12  giving thanks to
the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in
light.  13  He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us
to the kingdom of his beloved Son, 14  in whom we have redemption, the
forgiveness of sins.

-----

## Study

* Theme: The gospel the Colossians have heard is true and is bearing fruit
  among them, and in the rest of the world.
* Aim: Be confident in, and keep growing in Christ, living lives pleasing to
  God.

### SLOBS
*# 1->8

**1. What is Paul thankful for in verses 1->8?**

* Their love for all the saints (4)
* The gospel is working in them and the rest of the world (6)


**2. Trace the pathway which leads to Paul giving thanks.**

1. Colossians hear the gospel from Epaphras (7)
2. They respond with faith in Jesus and love for the saints (4)
3. They share the gospel and increase in number (6)
4. Epaphras reports back to Paul and he gives thanks (4)

*This is a good question, tracing the flow of the passage is a useful exercise*

The gospel is spread by ordinary people, nothing flashy.
The Colossians have faith because of the hope laid up for them in heaven. =>
They are driven by an eternal thing


**3. Why do the Colossians need to hear this?**

* Seal of approval, the teaching they had was true.
* Paul grounds his introduction in the gospel.
* Establishes the tone -> Paul is thankful for them.
* Encouragement against false teaching.


**4. Why do we need these verses?**

* Helps us see what sharing the gospel looks like => God changed them, not Epaphras.
* Epaphras is a "faithful minister" (7) who they receive teaching from. Helps
  us feel encouraged that what we have is enough.
* For us, be clear and faithful to the word -> what our friends need is the gospel.
* Be assured by the simplicity of faith, hope and love and be spurred onto a greater faith.

*# 9->14

**5. Write down all the things Paul prays for, then all the things God has done.**

*## Paul
* Increase in the knowledge of God's will (9)
    * Know how God wants them to live.
* Wisdom and understanding of the faith.
* Bear fruit and good works
    * They would actually do good works
    * They would bear fruit (see verse 6) -> a witness
    * **What does it mean to bear fruit?**
* Strengthened to endure opposition.

*## God
* Qualified them: made righteous, justified.
* Domain of darkness to kingdom of the Son, redeemed
    * God has moved us from one geography to another.
* Inheritance: promises made to Israel now apply to them, Gentiles


**6. What does this mean for us?**

* In Jesus, we have full understanding and all blessings.
* An example of how to pray for ourselves and other Christians.
* Keep us on the narrow path, on Christ and him alone.
* Pray for these things but also actively pursue them.
* Paul prays ceaselessly (9) -> challenge to us. Prayer and petition are the
  engine to growth.
