---
title: Colossians
---
# [Colossians](Colossians.md)

## Contents
* [Overview](README.md)
* [1:1-14](ch1v1-14.md)
* [1:15-23](ch1v15-23.md)
* [1:24-2:5](ch1v24-ch2v5.md)
* [2:6-15](ch2v6-15.md)
* [2:16-23](ch2v16-23.md)
* [3:1-11](ch3v1-11.md)
* [3:12-4:1](ch3v12-ch4v1.md)
* [4:2-18](ch4v2-18.md)

-----

## 3:1-11
1   If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above,
where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.  2   Set your minds on things
that are above, not on things that are on earth.  3   For you have died, and
your life is hidden with Christ in God.  4   When Christ who is you life
appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.

5   Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity,
passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry.  6   On account of
these the wrath of God is coming.  7   In these you too once walked, when you
were living in them.  8   But now you must put them all away: anger, wrath,
malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth.  9   Do not lie to one
another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices 10  and
have put on the now self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image
of its creator.  11  here there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and
uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free; but Christ is all, and in all.

-----

Theme: Christ has raised you to be a new creation, and is continually making
you into the likeness of God and uniting together all peoples.

Aim: So live not according to the world but to Christ, no longer sinning but
walking in him.

### Study

1. **_Recap_** **Who is Christ and how does he fulfil all our needs?**
2. **In verses 1-4, how does Paul change the Colossians' way of thinking and**
   **why?**
    * *[Follow up question to be dispensed in the ripest moment]* **What does he also remind them of?**
    * Paul encourages them by reminding them of what they have now, and what
      they will have in the future.
        * "raised with Christ" **(3:1)**
        * "Christ is seated at the right hand of God" **(3:1)**
        * "you life is hidden with Christ in God" **(3:3)**
        * "When Christ who is you life appears" **(3:4)**
        * "you also will appear with him in glory" **(3:4)**
        * *[Will explore these in the following bullet points and with various*
          *prompting questions]*
    * "If then you have been raised with Christ" continues from the writings
      about baptism as a symbol of our death to sin and new life in Christ.
    * After writing that "with Christ you died", Paul goes on to write that
      they are also resurrected with Christ, sharing in new life with him.
    * "Christ is, seated at the right hand of God", Jesus is in full authority
      *right now* **(see 1:17, 2:10)** which speaks directly against the Jesus+
      false teachings seen last week.
    * "your life is hidden with Christ in God", their life is secure and their
      salvation cannot be taken away from them *(see Romans 8:38)*
    * "When Christ who is your life", another powerful refute to false teaching
      and reminder that Christ is central. Jesus *is* their life, without him
      they are dead **(2:13)**.
    * "you also will appear with him in glory", an exhortation to seek eternal
      glory and imperishable treasures in heaven over earthly things. The
      Colossians are guaranteed glory and perfection by Christ's work, so why
      focus on earthly things (thinking back to the false teaching we saw last
      week)
    * *[Leads into application]* "seek the things that are above", "Set your
      minds on things that are above", the Colossians should pursue a deeper
      knowledge of and relationship with Christ rather than earthly things.
        * This would look like walking in Christ **(2:6)**, putting God above
          all else **(Matthew 6:33)**, and "holding fast to the Head"
          **(2:19)**
        * Paul will go onto write about very practical ways in which the
          Colossians (and us) can live like Christ, which we will look at in
          the coming weeks (stay tuned!)
3. **In what ways can we, today, grow in our faith by setting our minds on**
   **things that are above?**
    * Prioritise God above all else, i.e. go to Church, read your Bible, pray
      daily, talk about your faith with fellow Christians, and so on.
    * Remember the inheritance you have in heaven **(1:12)**
    * Don't leave 'Christian things' to just a Sunday or Thursday night, make
      it your life, remind yourself of the gospel truths everyday.
    * Read and study the Bible one/two/*n*-on-one, through the week, we have
      brothers and sisters in Christ here to help and encourage us **(2:28)**
4. *[With a superb segue]* **Paul goes on to write very practically about how**
   **to live in a Christ-like manner. From verses 5 to 11, what are they?**
    * **In what ways can our attitude be changed by this?**
    * **How can we help each other in this?**
    * Search and destroy all traces of sin in their lives.
    * **Why is sin such a problem?**
    * Paul gives a first list of sinful thoughts and desires, reminding them
      that "on account of these the wrath of God is coming". Such things are
      "idolatry" and are not fitting for those united to Christ.
    * The second list is one of sinful actions, especially speech.
    * Paul writes that they have "put of the old self" (past tense) and so
      should not continue "with its practices".
    * **What is the 'old self'? What was their relationship with sin before?**
    * Paul reminds them that "In these you too once walked", and urges them
      strongly to "put to death therefore what is earthly in you". This is a
      hard challenge, because our hearts are fundamentally broken and we have a
      natural desire to stray from God. *[Probably won't bring this up, but*
      *this is my understanding of original sin]* The battle against sin is
      active and ongoing. Paul uses the strongest language for them to make the
      strongest effort.
5. **But by the grace of God we are not alone in this battle! What**
   **encouragements does Paul offer here?**
    * "have put on the new self", they are new creations now, raised with
      Christ **(3:1)** and freed from their record of debt **(2:14)**.
    * "being renewed in knowledge", God is working in them, renewing them and
      giving them increasing knowledge to help fight the battle against their
      sinful desires. He is the one giving them power and growth **(2:20)**.
    * "after the image of its creator", moreover God is continually making them
      more and more Christ-like, and so they are "filled in [Christ]"
      **(2:10)**, more able to resist temptation and assured that the victory
      against sin has already been won on their behalf **(2:13-15)**
    * Paul then shows that the gospel breaks down all barriers between peoples,
      uniting *all* who are in Christ to himself. No matter who they are or
      where they come from, Christ is with them and working in them.
6. **How can this passage help and challenge us in our daily battle with sin?**
    * We are like the Colossians in that our 'old self' is gone and the new has
      come **(2 Corinthians 5:17)**, we are no longer like the world, consumed
      and caught up in earthly desires.
    * If we are in a battle with particular (perhaps recurring) sins at the
      moment, we can be reminded that Christ has ultimately defeated them and
      we are no longer bound to sin, darkness is not forever.
    * *[Quick side note to encourage]* **Romans 8:28-29:** "For I am sure that
      neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor
      things to come, nor powers, nor height nor depth, nor anything else in
      all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ
      Jesus our Lord", no sins we have ever done, are doing or will do are
      unforgivable, Jesus' love and forgiveness goes far beyond them and we can
      know that we are secured in the love and saving power of Jesus.
    * But we're not in heaven yet! Our battle with sin is very much ongoing,
      and requires daily motivation. We should look to God for our strength
      **(2:19 and Psalm 46:1 (or just all of it))**.
    * We can be spurred on by the complete sufficiency of Christ's atoning
      death and subsequent resurrection, keeping ourselves and encouraging
      others.
