---
title: Malachi
---
# Malachi

## Contents
* [Overview](README.md)
* [1:1-5](ch1v1-5.md)
* [1:6-14](ch1v6-14.md)
* [2:1-9](ch2v1-9.md)
* [2:10-16](ch2v10-16.md)
* [2:17-3:12](ch2v17-ch3v12.md)
* [3:13-4:6](ch3v13-ch4v6.md)

-----

## Notes

### Faithfulness
Faithfulness looks like:
 * Commitment, especially a whole hearted commitment.
 * Keeping your word and promises.
 * Being loyal.
 * Persistence and perseverance.

### Compliant of the people
The people accuse God of loving evil and allowing wrongdoers to prosper,
abandoning justice. However they see themselves as the sterling example of
righteousness, blind to their own wickedness, and are complaining to God that
they're not being rewarded.
*Aside: Shares some similarities with Habakkuk.*

### Answer to the complaint
God introduces his messenger, who comes to prepare the way for the Lord to
come. When the Lord does come, he will come to "purify the sons of Levi".
*Note:* John the baptist is the messenger who prepares the way, and Jesus is
the messenger of the covenant, see **Mark 1**.

### Fulfilment?
**How do we see this prophecy fulfilled?**
 * Both messengers have already come.
 * Partial fulfilment of the purification.
 * Through Jesus, we can offer our lives as living sacrifices **(Rom. 12:1-2)**
 * We are no longer slaves to sin **(Rom. 6:6)**, Jesus acts as our priest.
   **(Heb. 8:1)**

### What do we learn about God and the people in verses 6-12?
1. *God*
    * Doesn't change **(3:6)**
    * Gracious and willing to forgive **(3:7)**
    * Faithful to his people
2. *The People*
    * Not consumed **(3:6)**
    * Faithless, turned aside from God; at heart is an attitude problem
      **(3:7)**
    * Robbing God by not giving full tithe, selfish **(3:8,10)**
    * Wilful disobedience

### Returning to God
**What does it look like to return to God?**
 * Renewed obedience
 * Trust that God will provide for you **(3:10-12)**
     * *Note: the word "test" here is different to the word used in*
       *passages like Gideon. Here, it is an encouragement to have faith in*
       *God, waiting expectantly on his promises.*
 * God will give them all they need if they fully obey him **(3:10)**
 * God will protect them **(3:11)**
 * They need true repentance

### Application
The main point is to trust in and obey God.
**Where do we not do this fully?**
